A new blog post about developing OpenWRT in QEMU with Eclipse Che (#50)
eclipse-che/blog: _posts/2024-05-18-developing-openwrt-in-qemu.adoc

> ---

Reviewer: @olexii4 Let's change the publication date to 05.22

Author: I have fixed it

title: Developing OpenWRT in QEMU with Eclipse Che
layout: post
author: Oleksii Orel
description: >-
  Developing OpenWRT helloworld package in QEMU machine emulator and virtualizer with Eclipse Che.
categories: []
keywords: ['openwrt', 'quemu', 'gdb', 'quemu', 'developing ', 'workspace']
slug: /@olexii.orel/openwrt-helloworld-package
---

> OpenWrt is a highly extensible GNU/Linux distribution for embedded devices (typically wireless routers). OpenWrt is built from the ground up to be a full-featured, easily modifiable operating system for embedded devices. You can have all the features you need with no bloat, powered by a modern Linux kernel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[OpenWrt](https://openwrt.org/) is a highly extensible GNU/Linux distribution for embedded devices (typically wireless routers). OpenWrt is built from the ground up to be a full-featured, easily modifiable operating system for embedded devices. You can have all the features you need with no bloat, powered by a modern Linux kernel.
```

Reviewer: Let's add some links

Author: I have fixed it.

> We can create and develop OpenWRT CMake packages with Eclipse Che.

Reviewer: [OpenWRT CMake packages](https://openwrt.org/docs/guide-developer/creating-a-cmake-package-in-openwrt)

Author: I have fixed it.

> We can create and develop OpenWRT CMake packages with Eclipse Che.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can create and develop [OpenWRT CMake packages](https://openwrt.org/docs/guide-developer/creating-a-cmake-package-in-openwrt) with Eclipse Che.
```

Author: I have fixed it.

> In this blog post, we will review developing OpenWRT in QEMU with Eclipse Che in 4 parts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this blog post, we will review developing OpenWRT in [QEMU](https://www.qemu.org/) with Eclipse Che in 4 parts:
```

Author: I have fixed it.

<<part1>>

<<part2>>

<<part3>>

<<part4>>

> NOTE: To help illustrate this blog post we will use an https://github.com/che-incubator/openwrt-helloworld-package.git[OpenWrt HelloWorld package].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: In this blog post, we will use https://github.com/che-incubator/openwrt-helloworld-package.git[OpenWrt HelloWorld package].
```

Reviewer: I would probably duplicate devfile in the blog-post

Author: I have fixed it.

## PART 1: Quick start with prebuild recourses [[part1]]

> Prebuilt resources could be applied for a quick start with Eclipse Che. We could do it by running the next tasks from the `devfile.yaml` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prebuilt resources could be applied for a quick start with Eclipse Che. We could do it by running the next tasks from the [`devfile.yaml`](https://github.com/che-incubator/openwrt-helloworld-package/blob/main/devfile.yaml) file:
```

Author: I have fixed it.

1. `Add prebuilt resources`

NOTE: After adding prebuilt resources, we should see the `openwrt-*.img.gz` file in the `output` directory. Prebuilt resources were added to the runtime image during the last successful GitHub image build action.

image::/assets/img/developing-openwrt/add-prebuilt-resources.png[Add prebuilt resources]
{nbsp} +

## PART 2: Build all packages and the kernel [[part2]]

After creating a new workspace from https://github.com/che-incubator/openwrt-helloworld-package.git[openwrt-helloworld-package] with, Eclipse Che, we need to link the target package, copy `.config` file and install all package definitions. We can do it by running the following tasks from the `devfile.yaml` file:

> 1. `Link helloworld package`

Reviewer: on Developer Sandbox I hit on this step
```
 *  Executing task: devfile: Link helloworld package 

ln: failed to create symbolic link 'openwrt/package/helloworld': File exists
```

Author: I have fixed it.
